if there's ever been a brand reset
button in the automotive industry the
BMW i3 is it a compact all-electric car
from the brand that claims to build the
ultimate driving machines so how does it
live up that lofty standard hi I'm Joel
fetter and I'll tell you our verdict in
our latest video road test of the BMW i3
strip away the simulated twin kidney
grilles and roundel badges and you'd
really never know the i3 is a BMW you
know skinny tires in an outside view
with a dip window line inside it's
unlike any BMW you've ever seen before
it's more like a loft living room than a
cockpit it's dominated by a big screen
that displays infotainment functions
controlled via the iDrive knob on the
console a smaller screen behind the
steering wheel provides all the other
driving information including the
speedometer overall this interior is
elegant and well put together the one
thing this renewable material here it's
fine on the far part of the dashboard
but here are the door panels it kind of
feels like a smooth stripped of its
covering it's just it's the one sour
note this interior is far more spacious
than you expect
and while these seat backs are really
really thin they're actually pretty
comfortable and well bolstered now you
have a very upright seating position and
you sit higher than other compact cars
but you have a very good view of the
road now getting into the rear is a
little awkward here's why get to open
the front door and then someone has to
open this rear door for you and if
you're inside and you try to do it it's
a little hard now once you're in it's a
little tight for a full-sized adult
where the i3 breaks new ground is this
powertrain it's an all-electric battery
powered car with a 22 kilowatt-hour
lithium-ion battery pack mounted under
the floor it powers a 125 kilowatt or
170 horsepower electric motor mounted
here which sends 184 pound-feet of
torque to the rear wheels
the EPA rates the i3 at 81 miles of
electric range with an efficiency rating
of 124 mpge
that makes it the most efficient car of
any kind sold in the u.s. today
BMW says you'll see a real-world range
of 75 to 90 miles have range anxiety
want another 80 miles as a safety net
give or take you can opt for the range
extending a Rex engine as fitted to our
test car it's a little two cylinder
gasoline powered generator in the rear
of the i3 next
electric motor it kicks in to act as a
generator when you deplete the battery
but it's not connected to the drive
wheels you should know that opting for
the Rex model drops your battery range
rating to 73 miles and is only rated at
34 miles per gallon while the range
extender is on so what's it like to
drive well prepare to get a lot of
stares as you learn a new way to drive
the i3 has really good one pedal driving
kind of like the old Tessa roadster did
the aggressive region and a braking is
what really sets this apart from all the
other electric cars out there
it drives small and has a controlled
ride now it does have a stiff ride
thinks those tall and narrow tires also
it feels very quick up the line thinks
that instant torque but you're not about
to win a stoplight race is here the i3
has yet to be crash tested and its
carbon fiber reinforced plastic and
aluminum platform are complete unknowns
to the safety agency there are six
airbags and the usual array of
electronic safety systems Bluetooth is
standard and you'll even find dynamic
cruise control with braking function
priced from about four to two thousand
dollars the i3 comes well equipped with
LED headlights with daytime running
lights navigation and satellite radio
rain sensing wipers and Park distance
control in the rear
the only real options are choice between
two trim levels the changes the alloy
wheels leather interior bits and unique
interior materials if you decide to add
on the range extender you'll spend about
four thousand dollars more so what's the
bottom line with the BMW i3 it's a truly
radical attempt to reinvent the car and
the BMW brand for crowded cities of a
new century be sure to read more on
green car ports and follow us on
Facebook Twitter and YouTube
I'm Joel Feder thanks for watching